##Code Book
Code Book for project for Coursera Getting and Cleaning Data

#Overview
This code book describes the process for producing a "tidy" data set in a file called "tidy.txt" from the data collected from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone. 

#Obtain the data Download the data from
https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip
and unzip the file. A directory "UCI HAR Dataset" will be created. The files from this directory used to create the tidy data set are:

test/X_test.txt<br>
test/y_test.txt<br>
test/subject_test.txt<br>
train/X_train.txt<br>
train/y_train.txt<br>
train/subject_train.txt<br>
activity_labels.txt<br>
features.txt<br>

#Description of "run_analysis.R"
The script "run_analysis.R" in this repository processes the data in the files listed above. In order, the script does the following:

1) Reads each of the files into a separate dataframe<br>
2) Merges the test and train data into 3 separate dataframes called x_merged, y_merged, and subject_merged.<br>
3) Columns in the x_merged dataframe are renamed using the features.txt data.<br>
4) Column name for y_merged is renamed "activity", and subject_merged is renamed "subject"<br>
5) The data in y_merged is replaced with the corresponding activity from the activity_labels.txt.<br>
6) A dataframe "filtered" is created by extracting columns with the name std-() or mean-()<br>
7) The dataframes "subject_merged", "y_merged", and "filterd" are combined to create a dataframe alldata.<br> 
8) A dataframe "tidydata" is generated by collecting average of each variable for each activity and each subject. This dataframe is outputted to a file called "tidy.txt".

NOTE: run_analysis.R assumes the working directory contains all of the files
listed above. Copying run_analysis.R into the "UCI HAR Dataset" and running it
from ther will work.





